Abstract Strategy	Abstract Strategy games are often (but not always):   theme-less   without a storyline  built on simple and/or straightforward design and mechanics  perfect information games  games that promote one player overtaking their opponent(s)  little to no elements of luck, chance, or random occurrence  Microbadges  Abstract fan  Modern abstract games fan	1009
Action / Dexterity	Action/Dexterity games often compete players' physical reflexes and co-ordination as a determinant of overall success. Typical games are: Rhino Hero, Jenga, Crokinole Related blog post: On the value of dexterity games See also Flicking Stacking and Balancing Microbadges:  - Action/Dexterity Games fan	1032
Adventure	Adventure games often have themes of heroism, exploration, and puzzle-solving.  The storyline behind such games often have fantastical elements, and involve the characters in some sort of quest. Microbadge  Adventure games fan	1022
Age of Reason	Age of Reason games are board-wargames and historical games (expansion, promos, etc.) set from late 17th century (around 1690) to late 18th century (1789). The Age of Reason started around 1690, with the development and adoption of the socket bayonet by the main European armies, coming to an end in 1789 with the French Revolutionary Wars and the following Napoleonic Wars.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	2726
American Civil War	American Civil War games have storylines set during the secession years of the United States of America, 1861-1865. The most popular American Civil War games are also categorized as Wargames.  [Note: this category is included in the Civil war category which covers all civil wars].  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1048
American Indian Wars	American Indian Wars games generally have themes concerning the battles and wars between the indigenous peoples of North America and the colonizing European powers or settlers during the XVII (17)th and XVIII (18)th centuries. It also covers battles and wars between those indigenous peoples and the United States government during the XVIII (18)th and XIX (19)th centuries. Most American Indian Wars games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1108
American Revolutionary War	American Revolutionary War games have storylines set during the American War of Independence, 1775-1783. Most American Revolutionary War games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1075
American West	American West games often have themes or storylines set in the Western United States during the latter half of the 19th century.  Some of the themes and imagery found in the most popular American West games concerns cowboys, sheriffs, outlaws, prospecting, colonization, and railways, among others.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1055
Ancient	Ancient games often have themes or storylines set in the Old World, between 3000 BC (the beginning of the Egyptian dynasties) and AD 476 (the fall of the Western Roman Empire).  Some of the themes and imagery found in the most popular Ancient games concerns ancient Egyptian, Greek, and Roman civilizations.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1050
Animals	Animals games involve animals as a major component of the theme or gameplay.  Animals games often require players to attend to the management or control of animals.  Players may even take on the role of an animal (or animals) in the game.	1089
Arabian	Arabian games are generally fantasy or adventure games that have themes or storylines set in or inspired by the Arabian Peninsula of the Middle East, but may include locations around the Persian Gulf or North/East Africa as well. Popular themes and imagery in Arabian games include deserts, palaces, camels, jewels, and oases, among others.	1052
Aviation / Flight	Games primarily concerned with mechanical flight, including planes, helicopters, and gliders.	2650
Bluffing	Bluffing games encourage players to use deception to achieve their aims.  All Bluffing games have an element of hidden information in them.	1023
Book	Book games are not games per se, but rather a collection of game designs and rules that can be played using common gaming equipment (checkered board, paper and pencil, cards, dominoes, dice, etc.).  Another type of Book games are those like Steve Jackson's Sorcery! series that uses storytelling, dice rolling, and a "multiple-choice paragraph system" as mechanics.	1117
Card Game	Card Games use cards as its sole or central component.  There are stand-alone card games, in which all the cards necessary for gameplay are purchased at once.  There are also Collectible Card Games (CCGs), where players purchase starter and "booster" packs in an effort to compile a more and more powerful deck of cards to compete with.	1002
Children's Game	Children's Games are often driven by a set of simple rules and elementary themes geared towards younger players.  However, the most popular Children's Games are just that because they can be (and are) enjoyed by gamers of all ages.	1041
City Building	City Building games compel players to construct and manage a city in a way that is efficient, powerful, and/or lucrative.	1029
Civil War	Civil War games generally have storylines concerning a violent battle for government control between two more groups from the same country.  The majority of Civil War games are also categorized as Wargames. [Note: this category covers all civil wars including the American civil war (1861-65)].	1102
Civilization	Civilization games often have players developing and managing a society of people.  The aim of each player is usually to employ citizens in ways that are beneficial to society, and have them progress throughout the game so that their civilization gains superiority over others.  Civilization games may have each player build their society independently, or through warfare and diplomacy, each player may find themselves benefiting or suffering from the actions of others.	1015
Collectible Components	Collectible Components games are ones where the components required to play the game are purchased incrementally, rather than all at once. These games have a transitory nature as reprints really aren't possible.  Collecting a "complete set" for many of these games could be considered a hobby. The most popular Collectible Components games come in the form of Collectible Card Games (CCG) or Miniatures games.	1044
Comic Book / Strip	Comic Book/Strip games often have themes and storylines that are based on established comic book/strip characters.  Comic Book/Strip games may have been designed independently, or have been built onto previously established game systems (e.g., HeroClix).	1116
Deduction	Deduction games are those that require players to form conclusions based on available premises. These games are quite varied, including several different types of logical reasoning. Cat & Mouse games like Scotland Yard are a type of Deduction game in which players use a set of observations and truthful feedback to narrow down possibilities and catch a constantly moving opponent at the right position. Elimination games like Clue expect players to arrive at the right conclusion after narrowing down possibilities from a large list. Signalling games like Werewolf allow for a set of observations and player-driven feedback (which may not be truthful) to arrive at the right conclusion out of 2-3 main choices. Finally, this Category includes Induction games like Zendo, in which players must derive a general rule out of near infinite possibilities. Social deduction games are a related sub-category that is proving increasingly popular, and includes games with hidden roles and bluffing such as The Resistance and One Night Werewolf.  For an overview, see the article Social Deduction Games: How Many Different Ways Can I Tell You That I Am Not A Werewolf? and also Social Deduction Games: Choosing an Appropriate One. Microbadges:  - Deduction games fan  - Deduction games fan  - Social Deduction games fan	1039
Dice	Dice games often use dice as its sole or principal component.  Dice games traditionally focus almost exclusively on dice rolling as a mechanic (e.g., Yahtzee, Perudo, Can't Stop).	1017
Economic	Economic games encourage players to manage a system of production, distribution, trade, and/or consumption of goods. The games usually simulate a market in some way. The term is often used interchangeably with resource management games. Microbadges  Economic Games fan  Economic Games fan  Economic Games fan  Economic Games fan - Money never sleeps, pal	1021
Educational	Educational games have been specifically designed to teach people about a certain subject, expand concepts, reinforce development, understand an historical event or culture, or assist them in learning a skill as they play. (Definition taken from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Educational_game)	1094
Electronic	Electronic games often have an electronic apparatus as the central component of the game.  They differ from electrified games (e.g., Operation) as Electronic game components will contain circuitry, and sometimes a simple computer. Games that require a website or app to be played do not fall into this category. They can be added to the family Components: Digital Hybrid – App/Website Required instead.	1072
Environmental	Environmental games often have themes and storylines regarding environmental conservation and management.	1084
Expansion for Base-game	Expansion for Base-game games are sets of additional components and rules for expanding on an original base game.  An expansion cannot be played alone; they must be used in conjunction with the base game. Expansions for base games can be found in most of the game entries on BGG.  You will find them in the "Information" section, under "Expanded By".  You can also find expansions under the "Linked Items" column.	1042
Exploration	Exploration games often encourage players to discover and search new areas or territories for particular objects or goods, and/or to search for people to become trading partners with. Microbadge  Exploration Games fan	1020
Fan Expansion	"Fan expansion" is a BoardGameGeek designation for non-commercial enhancements made by people other than a base game's designers or publishers. In other words, these are "unofficial" works. The convention of adding "(fan expansion for...)" to the title field arose when the people behind Dominion expressed concern that unlicensed work might be confused with the official product line. Please be sure to read Fan Expansion Criteria.	2687
Fantasy	Fantasy games are those that have themes and scenarios that exist in a fictional world. It is a genre that uses magic and other supernatural forms as a primary element of plot, theme, and/or setting. Fantasy is generally distinguished from science fiction and horror by the expectation that it steers clear of scientific and macabre themes, respectively, though there can be a great deal of overlap between the three. Fantasy game elements usually include: a- Creatures that are common in fantasy books and comics, such as orcs, trolls, goblins, dragons, etc. b- Magic that can be used with units or abilities  c- Can involve a struggle between good and evil forces. Microbadges  Fantasy Gamer  Fantasy Gamer  Fantasy Gamer  Fantasy Gamer  Fantasy Gamer	1010
Farming	Farming games encourage players to build and manage farmland for the purposes of growing crops and/or tending to livestock, often to be sold or traded later on.	1013
Fighting	Fighting games are those that encourage players to engage game characters in close quarter battles and hand-to-hand combat. Fighting games differ from Wargames in that the combat in Wargames exists as one part of a large-scale military simulation, while in Fighting games the focus is on the particular combat scenarios.	1046
Game System	A Game System is an item whose components are not a game, per se, but are used to play games.  Examples include Piecepack, Decktet, Shibumi, GEMJI, Chestego and Rainbow Deck. Items that describe a single game or a game that has a set of scenarios are generally not regarded as a games system.	1119
Horror	Horror games often contain themes and imagery depicting morbid and supernatural elements.  Microbadges   Horror Games fan	1024
Humor	Humor games often have themes and gameplay that provoke laughter and amusement.  More specifically, humor games may require players to engage in clowning, comedy, jokes, and/or satire as an objective of the game.	1079
Industry / Manufacturing	Industry / Manufacturing games encourage players to build, manage and/or operate tools and machinery in order to manufacture raw materials into goods and products. Many of the most popular Industry / Manufacturing games are Economic games as well.	1088
Korean War	Korean War games cover the military conflict between North and South Korea (and their respective allies) during 1950-1953. The most popular Korean War games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1091
Mafia	Mafia games have themes and scenarios related to classic Sicilian criminal organizations.  However, some games in the Mafia category may be related to other organized criminal groups. This is not a mechanic, it's a narrative or theme.  For social deductions games such as Werewolf or Mafia, see Game: Werewolf/Mafia  under FAMILY	1033
Math	Math games explicitly require players to use mathematical knowledge and concepts to achieve game objectives. Games involving ordering of numbers or only basic arithmetic should be classified as Number games instead.	1104
Mature / Adult	Mature/Adult games often contain explicit humour and situations that might be offensive to some adults and not appropriate for younger gamers.  Many of these games contain sex or alcohol related humour.	1118
Maze	Maze games often require players to navigate a series of pathways that are located on the game board.	1059
Medical	Medical games have themes related to the science of natural healing. Themes may include surgery, cures, recovery/recuperation/physical therapy, psychiatry, pharmaceutical prescription, and other medicine-related items.	2145
Medieval	Medieval games that have themes or storylines set in Europe or Asia, between the 5th century (476, the fall of the Western Roman Empire) and the 15th century (1492, the beginnings of European overseas colonization).  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West   Microbadge  Medieval Theme fan	1035
Memory	Memory games require players to retain and recall previous game events or information as an objective.	1045
Miniatures	Note: Not all games that use miniatures as components are miniature games. A full list of games that use miniatures can be found here: Components: Miniatures. Miniatures games are games in which miniatures are used to stage the game scenes. In such games, miniatures are the key components, and the playing area represents the miniature's surroundings in a matching scale.     Miniatures Reference Wiki  Collectible Miniatures Games (BGG Family Page)  Miscellaneous Miniatures Game Accessory (BGG Game Page)  Miscellaneous Miniatures (RPGG Game Page)  Miniature Painters Guild  Miniature Painting Guide	1047
Modern Warfare	Modern Warfare games cover armed conflicts occurring after World War II (1945 - present). Two precise wars during this period have their own specific category: Korean War (1950-53) and Vietnam War (1945-75). The most popular Modern Warfare games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1069
Movies / TV / Radio theme	Movies/TV/Radio games are often those that are thematically linked with a popular movie, television show, or radio program.  Other Movies/TV/Radio games may test players' knowledge about these media, or the game environment may be set in the movie, television, or radio industry.	1064
Murder / Mystery	Murder/Mystery games often involve an unsolved murder or murders.  A requirement of these games is usually for players to investigate these crimes, and determine the criminal details and/or perpetrator(s).	1040
Music	Music games are thematically linked to music, bands and/or the music industry.  While many of the popular Music games test players knowledge on music (e.g., Cranium Pop 5, Encore), a number of these games are only linked to music as a theme in the game environment (e.g., Schrille Stille, Battle of the Bands).	1054
Mythology	Mythology games are those that incorporate a thematic narrative that defines how the game world or characters came into existence, especially those related or based on narratives of ancient civilizations of the world. The storyline in a number of Mythology games usually includes supernatural elements, such as gods, goddesses and demigods, and are sometimes set in a fabled, primordial time, which usually corresponds to a general corpus of folk stories (myths) that used to have some form of religious or sacred nature for the cultures that engendered these stories. Examples of Mythology themed games include Ra (based on Egyptian mythology), Odin's Ravens (based on Norse mythology) and Cyclades (based on Greek mythology).  Games in this category may have a corresponding Family entry begining with Mythology: Mythology: Arabian Mythology: Atlantis Mythology: Aztec Mythology: Celtic Mythology: Egyptian Mythology: Greek Mythology: Hindu Mythology: Norse Mythology: Roman Games that are based on modern fictional/literary creations, like the Cthulhu mythos, or mythos developed especially for the game itself should be placed in the Fantasy Spirit Island, Horror Mansions of Madness: Second Edition, and/or Adventure The Crew: Mission Deep Sea categories.	1082
Napoleonic	Napoleonic games have storylines set during the French Revolution (1789-1799) and Napoleonic Wars (1803-1815). Most Napoleonic games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1051
Nautical	Nautical games involve sailors, ships, and/or maritime navigation as a major component of the theme or gameplay.  Most Nautical games require players to effectively control ships as an objective. Microbadge  Nautical Theme Games fan	1008
Negotiation	Negotiation games explicitly involve and encourage making deals and alliances with other players and backstabbing when appropriate. Winning is rare without participating in these deals. Unlike cooperative games, Negotiation games are still largely competitive, while granting players certain times to make mutual agreements through discussion. Negotiation also includes bribery, such as is used in Santiago or Power Struggle.  In these situations, the negotiation is in the form of a naked offer, which can be accepted or declined. For an overview and discussion of popular negotiation games, see: Negotiation Games: Your favourites and why Microbadge  Negotiation games fan	1026
Novel-based	Novel-based games are those that are thematically linked with a popular novel or novel series. Games linked to other works of literature (poems, theatre plays, etc.) can be included too.	1093
Number	Number games require players to use or manipulate numbers to achieve their aims.	1098
Party Game	Party games are games that encourage social interaction. They generally have easy setups and simple rules, and they can accommodate large groups of people and play in a short amount of time. Lots of laughs.  I'm not a party gamer  I'm a party gamer	1030
Pike and Shot	Pike and Shot games are wargames set from the early XVI (16)th century to the late XVII (17)th century. Approx 1500-1690 The Pike and Shot era is generally considered to have started in the early 16th century when mixed formations of musket and pike-armed troops came to dominate the battlefield; it is generally considered to have come to an end with the development and adoption of flintlock guns and the socket bayonet around 1690. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pike_and_shot  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	2725
Pirates	Pirate games have a main character, theme or storyline of piracy. Some of the most popular themes and imagery in Pirate games concerns treasure hunting, sea robbery, swords and cannons, swashbuckling, and ship racing.  Many Pirate games occur in timelines prior to the 20th century. See also the family Theme: Pirates for games with pirates as a character group in a game - but not the main character, group, or theme. Microbadge  Pirate Games fan	1090
Political	Political games encourage players to use their character's authority to manipulate societal activities and policy.	1001
Post-Napoleonic	Games that cover the period between the end of Napoleonic Wars (1815) and start of World War I (1914), covering most of XIX (19) th century. Many Post-Napoleonic games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West   See also under Families:  History: Mexican Revolution	2710
Prehistoric	Prehistoric games often have themes or storylines set in a time before recorded history.  These unwritten histories are usually compiled under time periods, including the Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age. Many of the popular Prehistoric games are set in the Stone Age, hunter/gatherer societies, or time periods when dinosaurs existed.	1036
Print & Play	Print & Play (versions of) games are not published in a physical form. Instead, the rules and (most) components are available in a digital format, and players are expected to print them off and assemble them themselves. Often, some additional, non-printable components are required as well. There are a lot of Print & Play games available on the Internet, and they are often available for free. Digital items that contain only rulebooks (and reference sheets, etc.) but no components should not be linked to this category. This would also include games which require only components that are generic in nature that you don't print out such as traditional deck of cards, poker chips, generic tokens/pawns, hex board/go board/checker board/chess board, etc would not be added to this category either. In short, to be added to this category something other than the rules must be printed and crafted/assembled in some fashion. This category includes games that were published as a Print & Play game at some point, even if their files were removed later. That means that lots of these games are not available as Print & Play games anymore. Read more in the wiki about how to create Print & Play games.    Print & Play GeekListsFree Wargames!  The Canonical List of Free Print-and-Play Games 0-9 The Canonical List of Free Print-and-Play Games A-D The Canonical List of Free Print-and-Play Games E-H The Canonical List of Free Print-and-Play Games I-L The Canonical List of Free Print-and-Play Games M-P The Canonical List of Free Print-and-Play Games Q-T The Canonical List of Free Print-and-Play Games U-Z Free PnP Expansions Best Print & Play Historical Wargames Free Print & Play games that might actually be worth printing	1120
Puzzle	Puzzle games are those in which the players are trying to solve a puzzle.  Many puzzle games require players to use problem solving, pattern recognition, organization and/or sequencing to reach their objectives. Escape Room and Mystery Room games are types of Puzzle games.	1028
Racing	Games where the objective is to be the first to reach a checkpoint by navigation or steering around obstacles, usually by having greater speed and/or control than your opponents. Games in which players simply attempt to attain a particular goal (winning condition) more quickly than other players are utilizing the Race mechanic. See also: Sports: Bicycling / Cycling Sports: Aerial Racing Sports: Athletics / Track and Field Sports: Horse Racing Sports: Rowing	1031
Real-time	In real-time games, players are encouraged to take their turns as quickly as possible, often simultaneously. In some real-time games, a player is penalized if they don't do something within a set amount of time. Real-Time is different than Elapsed Real Time Ending, in which gameplay ends after a set amount of actual time has elapsed--as in Space Alert, Escape from Colditz, Escape: The Curse of the Temple, Space Alert, and most "escape room" type games, including the Escape Room: The Game series and the Unlock! series.	1037
Religious	A Religious themed boardgame features elements of their narrative, setting or characters that relates to current belief systems (religions) of the world, either in their historical aspect and its development through time or in their actual objects of faith, like sacred scriptures and articles of doctrine. Some boardgames categorized as Religious may address particular settings or stories from a religious text, for example The Settlers of Canaan, which is themed around the biblical account of the Israelite's settling of the land of Canaan. Other Religious boardgames may have direct references to scriptures, like the Bible Trivia, or explore aspects of the faith in a playful fashion, like Credo!: the Game of Dueling Dogmas or Intelligent Design vs. Evolution.	1115
Renaissance	Renaissance games are those set between the end of the XIV (14)th century (when the Renaissance began in Italy) and roughly the end of the XVI (16)th century when firearms were not yet dominating the battle field. Approximately from 1380 to 1590. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_firearm  Historical categories in BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1070
Science Fiction	Science Fiction games often have themes relating to imagined possibilities in the sciences.  Such games need not be futuristic; they can be based on an alternative past. (For example, the writings of Jules Verne and the Star Wars saga are set before present time.)  Many of the most popular Science Fiction games are set in outer space, and often involve alien races. Microbadge:  - Sci Fi games fan	1016
Space Exploration	Space Exploration games often have themes and storylines relating to travel and adventure in outer space.  Often, players must seek and gather resources and territories as objectives of the game. Many of the popular Space Exploration games are also categorized under Science Fiction. Microbadge  Space Theme fan	1113
Spies / Secret Agents	Spies/Secret Agents games often have themes or storylines relating to espionage.  Often, players must identify another player who has taken the role of spy or secret agent and attempt to reveal secret information that this player holds.  Many of the most popular Spies/Secret Agents games are also categorized under Bluffing and/or Deduction, and as such have an element of hidden information to them.	1081
Sports	Sports games often have themes or storylines related to the physical activity of sports.  The sports represented in the most popular Sports boardgames are football and racing (whether car, boat, bicycle or horse).	1038
Territory Building	Territory Building games have the players establish and/or amass control over a specific area.  Often, these games employ Area Majority / Influence or Enclosure mechanics; the latter in which the areas are not delineated at the beginning of the game but are instead created as the game progresses.	1086
Trains	Train games often involve gameplay and imagery related to railroads and rail vehicles.  Many of the most popular Train games are set in the late 19th and early 20th centuries (although some games, like Lunar Rails, are set in the future).	1034
Transportation	Transportation games often have gameplay involving the movement of goods or people from one place to another.  Many of the most popular Transportation games are Train games.	1011
Travel	Travel games often have gameplay where an objective is to move to and from different geographic locations.  As such, Travel games usually employ a map as the main feature of the game board.	1097
Trivia	Trivia games often test players on their knowledge of general interests and popular culture. Trivia Games History The earliest dated trivia game in the BGG database is the Travellers' Tour Through the United States which was released in 1822.  The next trivia game in the BGG database is the New Question and Answer Game released in 1830.  In total, the BGG has records of 18 trivia games that were published in the 19th century. It was not until 1981 that the genre of trivia games exploded with the release of Trivial Pursuit: Genus Edition.  In 1983, over 20 million copies of Trivia Pursuit were sold worldwide!  Now there are over 7,200 trivia games recorded in the BGG database (as of October, 2022).	1027
Video Game Theme	Video Game Theme applies to games that are thematically linked with or inspired by a video game franchise or genre. Some early games created with these themes are PAC-MAN Game and Frogger. It should not be used for board games with a digital/electronic version. These should be submitted to VideoGameGeek.	1101
Vietnam War	"Vietnam War" games cover military campaigns in Indochina (Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos): from 1945 until 1975. Note: Indochina war (1945-54) - France and allies against Việt Minh and allies; Vietnam war (1965-75) - United States and allies against North Vietnam and allies Most Vietnam War games are also categorized as Wargames. Microbadge   Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1109
Wargame	Wargames are games that depict military actions. Wargames are set in a variety of timelines, from the Ancient period to present conflicts and even in the future.  Thematically, Wargames cover everything from actions between small units on a very small board to larger, extremely detailed conflicts and even global-scale wars.  Although most Wargames are based on historical situations, there are Wargames based on fantasy or science fiction, as well as Wargames based on hypothetical but historically-based situations (e.g., nuclear war between the Soviet Union and the USA). Probably the most popular period for Wargames is World War II, followed by the Napoleonic Wars and the American Civil War. However, Wargames cover a vast range of conflicts, and if you are interested in a particular war you are quite likely to be able to find a game that covers it in some way. Three levels A Wargame will be at one of three levels of warfare - tactical, operational, or strategic. Tactical games depict a skirmish, battle or series of battles, using smaller scale units and maps that depict a battleground that is a few miles or less - sometimes much less - in size. Examples of tactical wargames include Advanced Squad Leader and Combat Commander: Pacific. Operational wargames cover a broader scope of military actions, greater than single battles. These may cover an entire smaller war, or a series of operations or a campaign within a greater war. Units are larger than in tactical games. Examples of operational level Wargames include Fortress Europa and 1914: Twilight in the East. Wargames on the strategic level usually recreate a major war on a large scale. Typically units in such a game will be corps or army level, although in so-called "monster" Wargames (no set definition, but usually a game with large maps and lots of counters that takes a long time to play) divisions and even smaller sized units can be depicted. Strategic Wargames are more likely than tactical or operational level games to include big-picture issues such as production of new military units. Examples of strategic-level Wargames include World in Flames, Paths of Glory, and Here I Stand. Other aspects Beyond the level of Wargames are other choices - for example, games that focus exclusively on naval battles and campaigns are common. Examples include Wooden Ships & Iron Men and Sixth Fleet: Modern Naval Combat in the Mediterranean. Similarly, Wargames depicting air battles are popular. Within these rough definitions are a huge variety of mechanics, themes, and approaches, and many levels of complexity; it is generally accepted that on average, Wargames are more complex than other types of games, although this is not a hard and fast rule. Naturally, all Wargames include combat - although not all games that include combat would typically be deemed Wargames; for example, Imperial and Age of Empires III: The Age of Discovery have combat and military forces, but most wargamers would not see them as Wargames. Some Wargames include political considerations, for example Ici, c'est la France! The Algerian War of Independence 1954 - 1962 or Triumph of Chaos. Number of players  Most Wargames are designed for two players, particularly tactical games. However, a significant minority are designed to be playable by three or more. Examples of Wargames for more than three players include World in Flames, Friedrich, Here I Stand, and Pax Romana.  Victory conditions in Wargames vary greatly, as does the subject matter. Common paths to victory include capturing one or more objectives on the map; destruction of a certain portion of an enemy force; accumulating victory points gained by a variety of means including taking objectives and destroying enemy units. Cardboard and Miniatures  Most Wargames use cardboard counters to depict military units, with symbols and numbers on the counters that describe each unit's attributes. Common attributes include the unit's size, type (e.g., cavalry, cruiser, archer, mechanized infantry...) combat strength, and speed of movement - but many other attributes such as morale, status of the unit, nationality, etc. can also be found. Wargames that use miniature figures to depict military units are also quite popular as are wargames with wooden blocks for units, called Block Games. Finally, there are many different approaches to Wargame mechanics. For movement, mechanics include hex-based movement (example: The Russian Campaign), area movement (Warriors of God: The Wars of England & France, 1135-1453), or point-to-point movement (Friedrich); note that is is rare for movement to rely on the roll of dice. Combat is often resolved by rolling dice and referring to a Combat Resolution Table (CRT) (for example, Rise and Decline of the Third Reich or Lee vs. Grant: The Wilderness Campaign of 1864), or by rolling dice to 'hit' opposing units (e.g.,Wellington: The Peninsular War 1812-1814), or by computing odds and drawing a card to see the result (Kingmaker). A popular mechanic over the past 15 or so years is the card-driven game (CDG), where cards are played either to activate units for movement or for the benefits described on the card such as reinforcements; We the People is seen as the first such CDG, and other examples include Paths of Glory and Empire of the Sun: The Pacific War 1941-1945. Links: History of Wargame  On BGG Links Wargames on BGG are ranked: rank list. See also the Wargamer's Guide to Wargaming Geeklists, a repository of geeklists holding special interest for wargamers. All Wargames magazines are listed and detailed at Game magazines page. Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1019
Word Game	Word games often require players to competitively use their knowledge of language.  Language knowledge in Word games is often focused on spelling and definitions.	1025
World War I	World War I games covers military campaigns from 1914 until 1918. Most World War I games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I - See also Families Interwar period (Nov. 1918 - Aug. 1939) World War II Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1065
World War II	World War II games have storylines set during various military campaigns in Europe, Asia, and Africa from 1939 until 1945. Most World War II games are also categorized as Wargames.  Historical categories on BGG:  Ancient Medieval Renaissance Pike and Shot Age of Reason Napoleonic Post-Napoleonic World War I  World War II - See also Families for individual theatres of war History: World War II (Pacific) Korean War Vietnam War Modern Warfare   North America:  American Revolutionary War American Civil War American Indian Wars American West	1049
Zombies	Zombie games often contain themes and imagery concerning the animated dead.  Some of the more popular storylines in Zombie games include apocalyptic themes, horror, and fighting.	2481
