1900 (Looping Games)	This is a series of small box games with a historical setting from the 20th century, by Looping Games. (Contact us here)      Released games:   1902 Méliès  1906 San Francisco  1911 Amundsen vs Scott                 1920 Wall Street  1923 Cotton Club  1942 USS Yorktown                  1980 Sixtina  1987 Channel Tunnel  1998 ISS                     Planned next releases:  1912 Titanic - The rescue of the passengers during the most important shipwreck in history.  1936 El Prado - A heroic mission during the Spanish Civil War to save all the art of the Prado Museum.  1953 Everest - A race to reach the roof of the world.  1975 White christmas - The biggest rescue in history, the operation "Frequent Wind" in Saigon.	51460
Admin: Better Description Needed!	This family is intended to highlight games in which the description is lacking. If you help us target and improve such descriptions, you will be rewarded! You can help in two ways: Add this family to existing game listings: A game description should cover three major elements: theme, goal and gameplay. If you see a game description which lacks these elements, please submit a correction to the game, requesting that it be added to this family. We will shoot you a small amount of GG for tagging these game entries. Improve their descriptions: Check out this family and see whether you know or would be willing to research any of the games included. If so, edit the description – making sure to explain theme, goal and gameplay – then submit a correction to the game, requesting that it be removed from this family. A BGG mod will check your edits and reward you appropriately for your assistance! Thank you very much for helping us improve the quality of descriptions on BGG!  Please edit the descriptions for the games, not for this family.	22783
Admin: Book entries that should be split	In the past, BoardGameGeek has allowed entries for books that contain descriptions for various games. Since then, that policy has changed. Now, we prefer to have an entry for each individual game in the book. The existing entries have been allowed to remain, but they should actually be split - and certainly not be used as an example for future entries. For books which contain multiple games: - If it comes with additional game play components: the book itself gets an entry - individual entries for the games are optional. - If it comes without components: individual games get an entry - book itself entry is optional. Note: Books (or chapters) about game strategy, or catalogs and pictorial collections of historic games are outside the scope of BGG and not included in the database.	59217
Admin: Cancelled Games	This is a family collecting together items that were announced but have been cancelled. This family designation should be used only by admins. In general, games are only placed in this family when a game has explicitly been cancelled, i.e. the designer has indicated that they will not publish the game.	22185
Admin: Game System Entries	Some games consist of multiple products without a clear core product. In some cases, you need multiple products to be able to play the game. In other cases, there are many different products that function as a stand-alone core set. When such games are usually played by combining multiple products, an entry can be created that stands for the game as a whole, and not for a specific product. This allows the discussion on the game to be centralized in a single entry. The "game system" entry should not have versions, as it does not represent a specific product. This family is meant to keep track of the game system entries that are in the database.	49247
Admin: Miscellaneous Placeholder	BoardGameGeek includes several entries used to represent a set of gaming-related items rather than specific games. These entries are important for marketplace transactions, but they are also employed in geeklists and collections. The related Admin: Test Family is intended primarily for administrative use.	4347
Admin: Outside the Scope of BGG	The BoardGameGeek database contains several entries for items that wouldn't be accepted into the database under today's policies, other than the items that are in the "Book" category. Often, such entries were accepted in the past because the policy was different - or not yet fully formed. Usually, the decision is made to allow such entries to remain in the database, and not to destroy any content created by the users for these entries. This family is meant to track these items in the database.	49282
Admin: Test Family	This is a test.	1
Admin: Test Family for revision	Testing Testing Revision 1 Revision 2	21705
Admin: Unreleased Games	This is a collection of unreleased games which have not met their original release schedule, and for which BGG does not know the revised schedule. Games that have explicitly been cancelled by the right's holder (usually the designer) are not kept in this family, but are added to Admin: Cancelled Games. Games in this family retain their originally planned release date and publication year.	72071
Admin: Upcoming Releases	This is a collection of games that will be released at some point in the future. Unreleased games which have not met their original release schedule, and for which BGG does not know the revised schedule, are added to Admin: Unreleased Games instead.	22184
Ancient: Babylon	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Babylon in theme or gameplay.  Babylon (Akkadian: Bābili(m);[1] Sumerian logogram: KÁ.DINGIR.RAKI;[1] Hebrew: בָּבֶל, Bavel;[1] Ancient Greek: Βαβυλών Babylṓn; Kassite language: Karanduniash; Arabic: بابل‎, Bābil) was a key kingdom in ancient Mesopotamia, in the fertile plain between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Source: Wikipedia, "Babylon," available under the CC-BY-SA License.	27524
Ancient: Bagan	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) relating to the ancient city of Bagan, Myanmar, in theme or gameplay.  Bagan is an ancient city in the Mandalay Region of Myanmar. From the 9th to 13th centuries, the city was the capital of the Pagan Kingdom. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Source: Wikipedia, "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bagan," available under the CC-BY-SA License.	69139
Ancient: Carthage	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) relating to the Ancient city and civilization of Carthage, now in Tunisia, in theme or gameplay.  Carthage was the capital city of the ancient Carthaginian civilization, on the eastern side of the Lake of Tunis in what is now Tunisia. Carthage was the most important trading hub of the Ancient Mediterranean and one of the most affluent cities of the classical world.  The city developed from a Phoenician colony into the capital of a Punic empire which dominated large parts of the Southwest Mediterranean during the first millennium BC. The ancient city was destroyed by the Roman Republic in 146 BC, then re-developed as Roman Carthage. The city was destroyed by Umayyad forces after the Battle of Carthage in 698 (against Byzantine forces). Source: Wikipedia, "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carthage" available under the CC-BY-SA License.	68956
Ancient: Corinth	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) relating to the city of Corinth, Greece, in theme or gameplay.  Corinth is the successor to an ancient city, and is a former municipality in Corinthia, Peloponnese, which is located in south-central Greece.  Ancient Corinth was one of the largest and most important city-states of Greece. The Romans demolished Corinth in 146 BC, built a new city in its place in 44 BC, and later made it the provincial capital of Greece. Source: Wikipedia, "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corinth,https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_Corinth" available under the CC-BY-SA License.	67857
Ancient: Egypt	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Egypt in theme or gameplay. The Egyptian Empire was founded near the 3rd millenia BC. The ancient Egyptian culture stood for more than 3000 years, thus impacting nearly all of the contemporary cultures. As an empire it was the leading power until the 1st millenia BC, reaching it's peak period during the dinasties XVIII-XIX (circa 1550-1190 BC).	72535
Ancient: Greece	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Greece in theme or gameplay. See also Country: Greece.  The classical period of Ancient Greece (508–322 BC), which saw the birth of Athenian Democracy, Plato's Adademia, Aristotle's Lyceum and many prominent leaders, philosophers and writers, including Socrates, Pericles, Aristophanes, Sophocles, and others.	52373
Ancient: Indus Valley	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) relating to the Indus Valley civilization, in theme or gameplay.  The Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC) was a Bronze Age civilisation in the northwestern regions of South Asia, lasting from 3300 BCE to 1300 BCE, and in its mature form from 2600 BCE to 1900 BCE. Together with ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, it was one of three early civilisations of the Near East and South Asia, and of the three, the most widespread, its sites spanning an area stretching from northeast Afghanistan, through much of Pakistan, and into western and northwestern India. It flourished in the basins of the Indus River, which flows through the length of Pakistan, and along a system of perennial, mostly monsoon-fed, rivers that once coursed in the vicinity of the seasonal Ghaggar-Hakra river in northwest India and eastern Pakistan. The Indus civilisation is also known as the Harappan Civilisation. Source: Wikipedia, "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indus_Valley_Civilisation," available under the CC-BY-SA License.	67873
Ancient: Jericho	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Jericho in theme or gameplay.  Jericho (Arabic: أريحا‎ ; Hebrew: יריחו Yeriẖo) is a city located near the Jordan River in the West Bank. Source: Wikipedia, "Jericho," available under the CC-BY-SA License.	27485
Ancient: Magna Graecia	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Magna Graecia in theme or gameplay.  Magna Graecia was the name given by the Romans to the coastal areas of Southern Italy in the present-day regions of Campania, Apulia, Basilicata, Calabria and Sicily that were extensively populated by Greek settlers; particularly the Achaean settlements of Croton, and Sybaris, and to the north, the settlements of Cumae and Neapolis.The settlers who began arriving in the 8th century BC brought with them their Hellenic civilization, which was to leave a lasting imprint on Italy, such as in the culture of ancient Rome. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magna_Graecia	54198
Ancient: Mesopotamia	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Mesopotamia in theme or gameplay.  Mesopotamia is a historical region of Western Asia within the Tigris–Euphrates river system, in the northern part of the Fertile Crescent, in roughly todays Iraq, Kuwait, eastern Syria, Southeastern Turkey, and Turkish–Syrian and Iran–Iraq borders. The Sumerians and Akkadians (including Assyrians and Babylonians) dominated Mesopotamia from the beginning of written history (c. 3100 BC) to the fall of Babylon in 539 BC, when it was conquered by the Achaemenid Empire. Mesopotamia has been identified as having "inspired some of the most important developments in human history, including the invention of the wheel, the planting of the first cereal crops and the development of cursive script, mathematics, astronomy and agriculture" Source: wikipedia	57934
Ancient: Pompeii	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Pompeii in theme or gameplay.  The city of Pompeii was an ancient Roman town-city near modern Naples in the Italian region of Campania, in the territory of the comune of Pompei. Source: Wikipedia, "Pompeii," available under the CC-BY-SA License.	27539
Ancient: Rome	Historical games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Rome in theme or gameplay. See also Cities: Rome (Lazio, Italy).  Games based on the glorious Roman Empire and Ancient Roman Culture. In historiography, ancient Rome is Roman civilization from the founding of the Italian city of Rome in the 8th century BC to the collapse of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century AD, encompassing the Roman Kingdom (753–509 BC), Roman Republic (509–27 BC) and Roman Empire (27 BC–476 AD) until the fall of the Western empire. The civilization began as an Italic settlement in the Italian Peninsula, traditionally dated to 753 BC, that grew into the city of Rome and which subsequently gave its name to the Empire over which it ruled and to the widespread civilization the Empire developed. The civilization was led and ruled by the Romans, alternately considered an ethnic group or a nationality. The Roman Empire expanded to become one of the largest empires in the ancient world, still ruled from the city, with an estimated 50 to 90 million inhabitants (roughly 20% of the world's population at the time) and covering 5 million square kilometres (1.9 million square miles) at its height in AD 117. In its many centuries of existence, the Roman state evolved from an elective Monarchy to a democratic classical Republic and then to an increasingly autocratic semi-elective military dictatorship during the Empire. Through conquest, cultural, and linguistic assimilation, at its height it controlled the North African coast, Egypt, Southern Europe, and most of Western Europe, the Balkans, Crimea and much of the Middle East, including Anatolia, Levant and parts of Mesopotamia and Arabia. It is often grouped into classical antiquity together with ancient Greece, and their similar cultures and societies are known as the Greco-Roman world. Ancient Roman civilisation has contributed to modern language, religion, society, technology, law, politics, government, warfare, art, literature, architecture and engineering. Rome professionalised and expanded its military and created a system of government called Res Publica, the inspiration for modern republics such as the United States and France. It achieved impressive technological and architectural feats, such as the construction of an extensive system of aqueducts and roads, as well as the construction of large monuments, palaces, and public facilities. The Punic Wars with Carthage were decisive in establishing Rome as a world power. In this series of wars, Rome gained control of the strategic islands of Corsica, Sardinia, and Sicily; took Hispania (modern Spain and Portugal); and destroyed the city of Carthage in 146 BC, giving Rome supremacy in the Mediterranean. By the end of the Republic (27 BC), Rome had conquered the lands around the Mediterranean and beyond: its domain extended from the Atlantic to Arabia and from the mouth of the Rhine to North Africa. The Roman Empire emerged with the end of the Republic and the dictatorship of Augustus. Seven-hundred and twenty-one years of Roman–Persian Wars started in 92 BC with the first struggle against Parthia. It would become the longest conflict in human history, and have major lasting effects and consequences for both empires. Under Trajan, the Empire reached its territorial peak. It stretched from the entire Mediterranean Basin to the beaches of the North Sea in the north, to the shores of the Red and Caspian Seas in the East. Republican mores and traditions started to decline during the imperial period, with civil wars becoming a prelude common to the rise of a new emperor. Splinter states, such as the Palmyrene Empire, would temporarily divide the Empire during the crisis of the 3rd century before some stability was restored in the Tetrarchy phase of Imperial rule. Plagued by internal instability and attacked by various migrating peoples, the Western part of the empire broke up into independent barbarian kingdoms in the 5th century. The Eastern part of the empire remained a power through the Middle Ages until its fall in 1453 AD.	5606
Ancient: Sparta	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring Ancient Sparta in theme or gameplay.  Sparta, Greece	24921
Animals: Alligators / Crocodiles	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring alligators or crocodiles in theme or gameplay.	7543
Animals: Ants	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring ants in theme or gameplay.	7507
Animals: Apes / Monkeys	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring apes or monkeys in theme or gameplay.	7178
Animals: Badgers	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring badgers in theme or gameplay.	18983
Animals: Bats	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring bats in theme or gameplay.  Wikipedia: "Bats are mammals of the order Chiroptera ( /kaɪˈrɒptərə/; from the Greek χείρ - cheir, "hand"[2] and πτερόν - pteron, "wing"[3]) whose forelimbs form webbed wings, making them the only mammals naturally capable of true and sustained flight. By contrast, other mammals said to fly, such as flying squirrels, gliding possums, and colugos, glide rather than fly, and can only glide for short distances. Bats do not flap their entire forelimbs, as birds do, but instead flap their spread-out digits,[4] which are very long and covered with a thin membrane or patagium. Bats represent about 20% of all classified mammal species worldwide, ..."	19070
Animals: Bears	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring bears in theme or gameplay.	7265
Animals: Beavers	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring beavers in theme or gameplay.	14694
Animals: Bees	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring bees in theme or gameplay.  Includes bees, honey bees, or bumblebees.	7564
Animals: Birds	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring birds in theme or gameplay.	45672
Animals: Butterflies	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring butterflies in theme or gameplay.	7591
Animals: Camels	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring camels in theme or gameplay.	6480
Animals: Cats	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring cats in theme or gameplay.	7334
Animals: Cattle / Cows	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring cattle or cows in theme or gameplay.	7530
Animals: Chameleons	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring chameleons in theme or gameplay.	17676
Animals: Chickens / Roosters	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring chickens / roosters in theme or gameplay.	7535
Animals: Cockroaches	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring cockroaches in theme or gameplay.  "Cockroaches are insects of the order Blattaria or Blattodea, of which about 30 species out of 4,500 total are associated with human habitations. About four species are well known as pests."	19252
Animals: Coral / Jellyfish / Anemones	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring coral, jellyfish, or anemones in theme or gameplay.  Animals in the Cnidarian family: Coral, jellyfish, box jellies, hydroids, and anemones	57261
Animals: Coyotes	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring coyotes in theme or gameplay.	17022
Animals: Crabs	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring crabs in theme or gameplay.	17635
Animals: Crows / Ravens / Magpies	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring crows, ravens, or magpies in theme or gameplay.  Corvids: crows, ravens, magpies, and so on.	7657
Animals: Deer / Antelope	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring deer or antelope in theme or gameplay.	7576
Animals: Dinosaurs	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring dinosaurs in theme or gameplay.	7559
Animals: Dogs	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring dogs in theme or gameplay.	7349
Animals: Dolphins	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring dolphins in theme or gameplay.	17634
Animals: Donkeys	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring donkeys in theme or gameplay.	7542
Animals: Ducks	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring ducks in theme or gameplay.	7306
Animals: Eagles	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring eagles in theme or gameplay.	63073
Animals: Elephants	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring elephants in theme or gameplay.	6979
Animals: Emus	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring emus in theme or gameplay.  An Australian native that features in many Australian board games. It is an animal that people searching for Australian games would be likely to search for. "The Emu ... is the largest bird native to Australia and the only extant member of the genus Dromaius. It is the second-largest extant bird in the world by height, after its ratite relative, the ostrich."	18446
Animals: Fish / Fishes	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring fish or fishes in theme or gameplay. See also Theme: Fishing / Angling and Card Games: Fishing.	7975
Animals: Fleas	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring fleas in theme or gameplay.  "Fleas are the insects forming the order Siphonaptera. They are wingless, with mouthparts adapted for piercing skin and sucking blood. Fleas are external parasites, living by hematophagy off the blood of mammals and birds. ... Over 2,000 species have been described worldwide."	19253
Animals: Flies	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring flies in theme or gameplay.	7589
Animals: Foxes	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring foxes in theme or gameplay.	7544
Animals: Frogs / Toads	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring frogs or toads in theme or gameplay.	6994
Animals: Geese	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring geese in theme or gameplay.	18887
Animals: Giraffes	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring giraffes in theme or gameplay.	17170
Animals: Goats	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring goats in theme or gameplay.	7759
Animals: Gophers	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring gophers in theme or gameplay.	58140
Animals: Grasshoppers	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring grasshoppers in theme or gameplay.  Technicalities from Wikipedia ... "The grasshopper is an insect of the suborder Caelifera in the order Orthoptera. To distinguish it from bush crickets or katydids, it is sometimes referred to as the short-horned grasshopper. Species that change colour and behaviour at high population densities are called locusts."	19066
Animals: Hamsters	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring hamsters in theme or gameplay.  "Hamsters are rodents belonging to the subfamily Cricetinae. The subfamily contains about 25 species, classified in six or seven genera." (Wikipedia, September 2012)	19606
Animals: Hedgehogs / Porcupines	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring hedgehogs or porcupines in theme or gameplay.	7760
Animals: Hippopotamuses	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring hippopotamuses in theme or gameplay.  Also see the geeklist, I Want a Hippopotamus for Christmas	11627
Animals: Horses	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring horses in theme or gameplay. See also Sports: Horse Racing.	7523
Animals: Insects	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring insects in theme or gameplay.	62079
Animals: Kangaroos	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring kangaroos in theme or gameplay.	7260
Animals: Koalas	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring koalas in theme or gameplay.	13110
Animals: Ladybugs / Ladybirds	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring ladybugs or ladybirds in theme or gameplay.	7833
Animals: Lions	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring lions in theme or gameplay.	7834
Animals: Lizards	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring lizards in theme or gameplay.	21462
Animals: Llamas	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring llamas in theme or gameplay.	18053
Animals: Lobsters	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring lobsters in theme or gameplay.	98637
Animals: Mammoths	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring mammoths in theme or gameplay.  Mammoths lived around 5 million years ago. They had long curved tusks and the northern species were covered with hair. See also BGG family: Animals: Prehistoric Non-Dinosaurs	19068
Animals: Marmots	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring marmots in theme or gameplay.  The marmots are generally large ground squirrels in the genus Marmota, of which there are 15 species. Read more: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marmot	18409
Animals: Mice	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring mice in theme or gameplay.	7269
Animals: Moles	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring moles in theme or gameplay.	7835
Animals: Moose / Elk	Games involving moose or elk. They are related to deer, but are much larger than the other animals in that family.	74574
Animals: Mosquitoes	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring mosquitoes in theme or gameplay. Mosquitoes (or mosquitos) are members of a group of almost 3,600 species of small flies within the family Culicidae (from the Latin culex meaning "gnat"). The word "mosquito" (formed by mosca and diminutive -ito) is Spanish for "little fly". Mosquitoes have a slender segmented body, one pair of wings, one pair of halteres, three pairs of long hair-like legs, and elongated mouthparts. The mosquito life cycle consists of egg, larva, pupa, and adult stages. Eggs are laid on the water surface; they hatch into motile larvae that feed on aquatic algae and organic material. These larvae are important food sources for many freshwater animals, such as dragonfly nymphs, many fish, and some birds such as ducks. The adult females of most species have tube-like mouthparts (called a proboscis) that can pierce the skin of a host and feed on blood, which contains protein and iron needed to produce eggs. Thousands of mosquito species feed on the blood of various hosts ⁠— vertebrates, including mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and some fish; along with some invertebrates, primarily other arthropods. The mosquito's saliva is transferred to the host during the bite, and can cause an itchy rash. In addition, many species can ingest pathogens while biting, and transmit them to future hosts. In this way, mosquitoes are important vectors of parasitic diseases such as malaria and filariasis, and arboviral diseases such as yellow fever, Chikungunya, West Nile, dengue fever, and Zika. By transmitting diseases, mosquitoes cause the deaths of more people than any other animal taxon: over 700,000 each year. It has been claimed that almost half of the people who have ever lived have died of mosquito-vectored disease, but this claim is disputed, with more conservative estimates placing the death toll closer to 5% of all humans. Mosquitoes cannot live or function properly when the air temperature is below 10 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit). They are mostly active at 15–25 degrees Celsius (60–80 degrees Fahrenheit). -- From Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved October 22, 2022, from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mosquito&oldid=1116506079 The de Havilland Mosquito was a British Second World War aircraft but it has no relation to this family	77258
Animals: Octopuses	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring octopuses in theme or gameplay.	17527
Animals: Ostriches	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring ostriches in theme or gameplay.  "The Ostrich, or Common Ostrich (Struthio camelus), is one or two species of large flightless birds native to Africa, the only living member(s) of the genus Struthio that is in the ratite family. Some analyses indicate that the Somali Ostrich may be better considered a full species apart from the Common Ostrich, but most taxonomists consider it to be a subspecies." (Wikipedia, August 2012)	19327
Animals: Otters	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring otters in theme or gameplay.	104840
Animals: Owls	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring owls in theme or gameplay.	18588
Animals: Pandas	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring pandas in theme or gameplay.	20718
Animals: Penguins	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring penguins in theme or gameplay.	7488
Animals: Pigeons	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring pigeons in theme or gameplay.	23890
Animals: Pigs	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring pigs in theme or gameplay. Includes similar animals such as Boars, Warthogs and Babirusa.	7379
Animals: Prehistoric Non-Dinosaurs	Games featuring prehistoric animals that aren't Dinosaurs. These will typically be found in games with a Stone Age, hunter/gatherer setting. Mammoths have their own BGG family: Animals: Mammoths	75251
Animals: Rabbits	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring rabbits in theme or gameplay.	6507
Animals: Raccoons	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring raccoons in theme or gameplay.	58093
Animals: Rats	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring rats in theme or gameplay.	7520
Animals: Rhinoceroses	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring rhinocerouses in theme or gameplay.  Often abbreviated as "rhino". Two of these species are native to Africa and three to southern Asia.	19030
Animals: Seals	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring seals in theme or gameplay.	17023
Animals: Sharks	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring sharks in theme or gameplay.	7691
Animals: Sheep	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring sheep in theme or gameplay.	7481
Animals: Skunks	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring skunks in theme or gameplay.	17168
Animals: Sloths	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring sloths in theme or gameplay.	63075
Animals: Snails	Games (expansions, promos, etc.) featuring snails in theme or gameplay.	18981
